# neuro-symbolic-ai_pulse2percept_capstone

 The rapid expansion of artificial intelligence (AI) has led to its integration across fields such as healthcare. At its core, AI uses mathematical algorithms to produce an output from inputs chosen by the user. Traditional AI approaches include symbolic AI which solves problems using logical reasoning and predefined rules but fails for data it does not recognize or have rules for. Neural network is another approach that can recognize patterns to make skilled inferences but lacks interpretability of how an output was reached. For these reasons, it is risky to incorporate neural or symbolic AI methods to healthcare where both accuracy and interpretability is crucial. To address these concerns, this research introduces neuro-symbolic AI, a revolutionary AI learning paradigm that combines both symbolic and neural approaches to solve complex problems and be interpretable. The effectiveness of neuro-symbolic AI is demonstrated through the context of retinal prosthesis or the bionic eye. Similar to cochlear implants, the bionic eye is a device that converts visual input to electrical signals. These signals stimulate remaining retinal cells to produce vision. By combining advanced data processing with interpretable reasoning, neuro-symbolic AI has the potential to enhance the visual input and improve the bionic eye percept.  Thus, this research evaluates neuro-symbolic AI and its application to retinal prosthesis by creating and testing a neuro-symbolic program to improve bionic vision.
